OBSDOCS-873/TRACING-3799: Documentation for the Tempo monolithic CRD (#75761)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-web-console.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* observability/distr_tracing/distr_tracing_tempo/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="distr-tracing-tempo-install-tempomonolithic-web-console_{context}"]
= Installing a TempoMonolithic instance by using the web console

:FeatureName: The TempoMonolithic instance
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

You can install a TempoMonolithic instance from the *Administrator* view of the web console.

.Prerequisites

* You are logged in to the {product-title} web console as a cluster administrator with the `cluster-admin` role.

* For {product-dedicated}, you must be logged in using an account with the `dedicated-admin` role.

.Procedure

> . Create a project of your choice for the *TempoMonolithic* instance that you will create in a subsequent step: go to *Home* -> *Projects* -> *Create Project*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a project of your choice for the *TempoMonolithic* instance that you create in a subsequent step by clicking *Home* -> *Projects* -> *Create Project*.
```

Author: Here is how I rephrased this step:

_. Go to *Home* -> *Projects* -> *Create Project* to create a project of your choice for the *TempoMonolithic* instance that you will create in a subsequent step._

> . Decide which type of supported storage you will use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a Persistent Volume, or object storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Decide which type of supported storage you to use for storing traces: in-memory storage, a Persistent Volume, or object storage.
```

Author: Thank you. I will apply this suggestion.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Object storage is not included with the {TempoShortName} and requires setting up an object store by a supported provider: link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift-data-foundation[Red Hat OpenShift Data Foundation], link:https://min.io/[MinIO], link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3], link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs/[Azure Blob Storage], or link:https://cloud.google.com/storage/[Google Cloud Storage].

> Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the *TempoMonolithic* instance: go to *Workloads* -> *Secrets* -> *Create* -> *From YAML*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the *TempoMonolithic* instance. To create a secret, click *Workloads* -> *Secrets* -> *Create* -> *From YAML*.
```

Author: Thank you. The intended audience knows what to do. The menu navigation is just a tip for their convenience.

Author: This is how I reworked it:

```
Additionally, opting for object storage requires creating a secret for your object storage bucket in the project that you created for the *TempoMonolithic* instance.
+
[TIP]
====
You can do this in *Workloads* -> *Secrets* -> *Create* -> *From YAML*.
====
```

For more information, see "Object storage setup".

--
include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-secret-example.adoc[]
--
====

> . Create a *TempoMonolithic* instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a *TempoMonolithic* instance:
```

Author: Thank you. Applied.

+
[NOTE]
====
You can create multiple *TempoMonolithic* instances in separate projects on the same cluster.
====

.. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.

.. Select *TempoMonolithic* -> *Create TempoMonolithic* -> *YAML view*.

.. In the *YAML view*, customize the `TempoMonolithic` custom resource (CR).
+
include::snippets/distr-tracing-tempo-tempomonolithic-custom-resource.adoc[]

.. Select *Create*.

.Verification

. Use the *Project:* dropdown list to select the project of the *TempoMonolithic* instance.

. Go to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* to verify that the *Status* of the *TempoMonolithic* instance is *Condition: Ready*.

. Go to *Workloads* -> *Pods* to verify that the pod of the *TempoMonolithic* instance is running.

. Access the Jaeger UI:

.. Go to *Networking* -> *Routes* and kbd:[Ctrl+F] to search for `jaegerui`.
+
[NOTE]
====
The Jaeger UI uses the `tempo-<metadata_name_of_TempoMonolithic_CR>-jaegerui` route.
====

> .. In the *Location* column, open the URL to access the Jaeger UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In the *Location* column, open the URL to access the Jaeger UI:
```

Author: There are no more substeps. This is the last substep.

Reviewer 2: My bad! Not sure why those 2 tricked me.
